[WIP] Consolidated 4.10 RAN docs (#43890)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/nw-rfhe-creating_bmc_event_sub.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//

> // * networking/using-rfhe.adoc

Reviewer: This says networking/using-rfhe.adoc but I see it under monitoring/using-rfhe.adoc

Reviewer 2: updated

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="nw-rfhe-creating_bmc_event_sub_{context}"]
= Subscribing to Redfish hardware events

You can configure the baseboard management controller (BMC) to send Redfish hardware events to subscribed applications running in {product-title} cluster. Example Redfish events include an increase in device temperature, or removal of a device. Applications subscribe to Redfish hardware events using a REST API.

[IMPORTANT]
====
You can only create a `BMCEventSubscription` CR for physical hardware that supports Redfish and has a vendor interface set to `redfish` or `idrac-redfish`.
====

[NOTE]
====

> Use the `BMCEventSubscription` CR to subscribe to pre-defined Redfish events. The Redfish standard does not provide an option to create specific alerts and thresholds. For example, to receive an alert event when an enclosure's temperature exceeds 40° Celsius, you need to manually configure the event according to the vendor's recommendations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `BMCEventSubscription` CR to subscribe to predefined Redfish events. The Redfish standard does not provide an option to create specific alerts and thresholds. For example, to receive an alert event when an enclosure's temperature exceeds 40° Celsius, you must manually configure the event according to the vendor's recommendations.
```

Reviewer 2: updated

====

> To subscribe to Redfish hardware events for the node using a `BMCEventSubscription` custom resource (CR), perform the following procedure:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Perform the following procedure to subscribe to Redfish hardware events for the node using a `BMCEventSubscription` custom resource (CR) .
```
Suggestion for rewording to avoid using : at the end of the sentence.

Reviewer 2: applied

.Prerequisites
* Install the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).
* Log in as a user with `cluster-admin` privileges.
* Get the user name and password for the BMC.

> * Deploy a bare-metal node with Redfish hardware in your cluster, and enable Redfish events on the BMC.

Reviewer: Flagging this sentence for inconsistent use of "bare-metal". In other parts of Redfish doc you have used "baremetal".

   "Status": {
      "Health": "OK",
      "HealthRollup": "OK",
      "State": "Enabled"
   },
   "Subscriptions": {
      "@odata.id": "/redfish/v1/EventService/Subscriptions"
   }
}
----

. Get the hardware event proxy service route for the cluster:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get route -n openshift-hw-events
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME                      HOST/PORT                                                                            PATH   SERVICES                  PORT    TERMINATION            WILDCARD
hw-event-proxy            hw-event-proxy-cloud-native-events.apps.compute-1.example.com                               hw-event-proxy-service    9087    edge                   None
----

. Create a `BMCEventSubscription` resource to subscribe to the Redfish events:

.. Save the following YAML in the `bmc_sub.yaml` file:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: metal3.io/v1alpha1
kind: BMCEventSubscription
metadata:
  name: sub-01
  namespace: openshift-machine-api
spec:
   hostName: <hostname> <1>
   destination: <proxy_service_url> <2>
   context: ''
----
<1> Specifies the name or UUID of the worker node where the Redfish events are generated.

> <2> Specifies the bare-metal hardware event proxy service, for example, `https://hw-event-proxy-cloud-native-events.apps.compute-1.example.com/webhook`.

Reviewer: Flagging this sentence for inconsistent use of "bare-metal". In other parts of Redfish doc you have used "baremetal".

      "#EventService.SubmitTestEvent": {
         "EventType@Redfish.AllowableValues": ["StatusChange", "ResourceUpdated", "ResourceAdded", "ResourceRemoved", "Alert"],
         "target": "/redfish/v1/EventService/Actions/EventService.SubmitTestEvent"
      }
   },
   "DeliveryRetryAttempts": 3,
   "DeliveryRetryIntervalSeconds": 30,
   "Description": "Event Service represents the properties for the service",
   "EventTypesForSubscription": ["StatusChange", "ResourceUpdated", "ResourceAdded", "ResourceRemoved", "Alert"],
   "EventTypesForSubscription@odata.count": 5,
   "Id": "EventService",
   "Name": "Event Service",
   "ServiceEnabled": true,
   "Status": {
      "Health": "OK",
      "HealthRollup": "OK",
      "State": "Enabled"
   },
   "Subscriptions": {
      "@odata.id": "/redfish/v1/EventService/Subscriptions"
   }
}
----

. Get the {redfish-operator} service route for the cluster by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get route -n openshift-bare-metal-events
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
NAME             HOST/PORT                                                       PATH   SERVICES                 PORT   TERMINATION   WILDCARD

> hw-event-proxy   hw-event-proxy-cloud-native-events.apps.compute-1.example.com          hw-event-proxy-service   9087   edge          None

Reviewer 3: @jzding  could you help verify this output? Thanks.

Reviewer 4: The output of 
```
$ oc get route -n openshift-bare-metal-events
```
should be the following, where `hw-event-proxy` is the service name and `openshift-bare-metal-events` is namespace.
```
NAME             HOST/PORT                                                                                           PATH   SERVICES                 PORT   TERMINATION   WILDCARD
hw-event-proxy   hw-event-proxy-openshift-bare-metal-events.apps.compute-1.example.com          hw-event-proxy-service   9087   edge          None
```

----

. Create a `BMCEventSubscription` resource to subscribe to the Redfish events:

.. Save the following YAML in the `bmc_sub.yaml` file:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: metal3.io/v1alpha1
kind: BMCEventSubscription
metadata:
  name: sub-01
  namespace: openshift-machine-api
spec:
   hostName: <hostname> <1>
   destination: <proxy_service_url> <2>
   context: ''
----
<1> Specifies the name or UUID of the worker node where the Redfish events are generated.

> <2> Specifies the bare-metal event proxy service, for example, `hw-event-proxy-cloud-native-events.apps.compute-1.example.com/webhook`.

Reviewer 4: The url should include https://
Example: `https://hw-event-proxy-openshift-bare-metal-events.apps.compute-1.example.com/webhook`

[IMPORTANT]
====
You can only create a `BMCEventSubscription` custom resource (CR) for physical hardware that supports Redfish and has a vendor interface set to `redfish` or `idrac-redfish`.
====

[NOTE]
====
Use the `BMCEventSubscription` CR to subscribe to predefined Redfish events. The Redfish standard does not provide an option to create specific alerts and thresholds. For example, to receive an alert event when an enclosure's temperature exceeds 40° Celsius, you must manually configure the event according to the vendor's recommendations.
====

Perform the following procedure to subscribe to Redfish hardware events for the node using a `BMCEventSubscription` CR.

.Prerequisites
* Install the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).
* Log in as a user with `cluster-admin` privileges.
* Get the user name and password for the BMC.
* Deploy a bare-metal node with Redfish hardware in your cluster, and enable Redfish events on the BMC.
+
[NOTE]
====
Enabling Redfish events on specific hardware is outside the scope of this information. For more information about enabling Redfish events for your specific hardware, consult the BMC manufacturer documentation.
====

.Procedure

> . Confirm the node hardware has the Redfish `EventService` enabled using the following `curl` command:

Reviewer 5: From repo contribution guidelines:

> If a step in a procedure is to run a command, make sure that the step text includes an explicit instruction to "run" or "enter" the command.

Apply throughout PR.
